Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
The old phrase.
"Beauty is in the eye of the beholder."
is false. That is not true.
There is. no doubt.
a correct-shaped human face.
like there is with every other animal.
You know. cows all look the same.
Sheep all look the same.
Humans should all look the same.
but they don't.
They vary hugely.
And sometimes
the shape of the face is appealing.
and sometimes. shall we say. less so.
What worries me is the fact
that most people are severely deformed.
It's a terrible thing to say.
but it's really true.
Everybody is programmed
to have the same type of face.
Have you ever
taken a boat ride or a raft?
Yeah.
But the development
of our face has gone wrong.
Pump. pump. pump.
We are no longer very beautiful.
What was the worst part of the treatment?
My job is to create
beautiful faces.
And anything you can do
to make the face better
is the right thing.
Was it as bad as you thought it would be?
I thought the treatment
would be a lot worse.
People say. "John.
you create the best faces in the world."
- Seashells on the...
- Seashore.
- Brother.
The problem is.
I'm too far ahead of everybody else.
Okay. now get the head back.
Open nice and wide.
Open a bit wider.
Okay. cool. And then bite together.
I actually stopped talking
about what I did
at dinner parties.
because I'd go to a dinner party.
The normal thing happens.
Everyone says. "Oh. what do you do?"
And I go. "I'm--I'm-- I'm an orthodontist.
but one of the most controversial."
I spent my entire life
with this knowledge in my brain
that no one else seems to see.
You know. look at the car crash.
the slow motion car crash
that's happened to you.
Do you not see it?
Modern orthodontics.
particularly fixed braces.
you're not affecting
the cause of the problem.
Actually. often.
you're making the underlying
situation worse.
People don't like to change.
We're comfortable in the skin we're in.
And I need to get people to change.
At this point.
if you remember from last time.
I always make them
look a little bit jaw-y.
So the jaw. physically.
should be slightly
further ahead of the top jaw.
'Cause this area here.
as he starts building his muscles up.
he's gonna lift this jaw up.
and this area is gonna go...
Out like that. Kay?
So if we get him here. up like that.
and we achieve that
in a sort of more harmonious structure.
well. he'll have had.
I believe. to my knowledge.
one of the best facial
outcomes yet achieved.
I've got this ability. I know.
to transform lives immensely.
beyond reason.
Children that look like this
don't have the same lives.
either health-wise
or integrating with society
and their peers. as people like this.
It has been really. really hard work.
But we've only just got going.
- Monday.
- Tuesday.
- Wednesday.
Now I start to need to change you.
Now. we change you with an appliance
that's got fangs on it like this. okay?
If she drops her jaw down.
the appliance engages
underneath the mandible.
and that will remind her
to keep her mouth closed.
building up this Pavlovian
feedback response.
And that's what we want.
Life is full of surprises.
The fact that the internet got me famous
is one of those things. I guess.
This term mewing. the whole mewing thing
has been an absolute gift to me.
It's a godsend. It's named after me.
My surname has become a verb now.
It's a massively used term.
Someone pointed out to me recently
that the hashtag #mewing has been seen
over a billion times on TikTok.
That blows me away.
I stagger. How am I in this place?
I mean. how did I get here?
Right.
I'm gonna kind of stick
my legs out there a little.
Well. get your feet in.
You could pull the chair.
Well. I think they've now set up on us.
- So the last--
- Are our heads close enough together?
I have abs-- I'm sure they'll give us
some instructions.
They will.
You look to be
quite a way away. that's all.
Yeah. Well. I'm waiting for instruction.
- So...
- Right.
I really think it's gonna be
a nice. sunny day today.
Excuse me.
Don't feel shy about--
- May we begin?
- Yes.
So what's it like
to be a father/son team?
I'd never thought about it.
- What do you--
- I don't see myself as a team.
I see myself as a chap
who likes orthodontics
with a son who's interested
in orthodontics.
Yeah. Yes. you see. you are an individual.
- Oh.
- Yeah.
You're not the best
team player in the world.
- Well. probably not.
- No. no.
I don't think we work together.
There we go.
I think that about sums it up.
- Well. no.
- I've been trying for years
to get him to work with me.
but he does his own thing.
I've never-- Don't think
I've ever had a different thought.
At the age of 16.
I had a little black book.
only about that big.
♪Whenever I had significant thoughts.
I would note them down.
And so I spent most of my life puzzling
on the reason for this or that or center.
I was not a good student.
I regularly failed my exams.
And I really don't think
I'm at all clever.
Quite stupid. in fact.
But interestingly. I had this ability to--
I think they call it lateral thinking.
Therefore. I was always
coming up with ideas
which were entirely different
than everyone else's.
Traditional truths are not always correct.
I think I see myself as a rebel.
Once you've come up with the answer.
you know it's right.
And of course. that's my problem now.
I know I'm right.
The orthodontists are
absolutely sure I'm wrong.
Could you sit up a little for me?
Oh. so sorry. yes.
- I keep slithering down.
- No. no. not at all.
I'm-- Remember my age. son.
A delicate subject
to talk about other people.
particularly about their faces.
So one does need to tread carefully.
But if you walk down the street.
you'll find a huge number of people
who just have flat faces.
Now. most people think.
"Well. I've just got a flat face."
But there's a reason for that.
There's a reason for everything.
I spent most of my life
studying faces.
I decided I wanted to be a dentist
way back. before I was ten.
My father. he was an orthodontist.
so obviously enjoyed it.
that it seemed natural
for me to do the same thing.
I started off
very much part of the establishment.
But I was unhappy with the effect
of orthodontic treatment on youngsters.
They were purely mechanical cures.
They would say. "Look.
these teeth are all there.
We'll fix it."
And the dentists found that if they fitted
a plate with bits of wire on it.
they could line the teeth up.
Fix the palate. see.
See. my belief are
they're doing more harm than good.
The whole orthodontic scene is a scandal.
Most orthodontic treatment flattens faces.
In reality. it pulls them back.
which is the exact opposite
of what you want.
It's a bit like taking a cardboard box.
If you push it in.
it kinks and cracks and twists.
Well. the face is just the same.
If it's pushed back at one end.
it kinks like this.
It's better to try and lodge the jaws
to take the whole lot forward.
which also provides room for the teeth.
My dear wife. Jo. and I
were treated traditionally.
We both have narrow faces
and crowded teeth.
I really wanted to bring my children up
without traditional orthodontic methods.
And so I thought I'd design
an appliance to do that.
I don't know if you've done much.
what they say. "DIY."
do it yourself. but it's very convenient
to be able to experiment on your children.
Most people do it socially.
but I also did it medically.
William. my older one.
I was just forming these ideas.
It wasn't effective. and as a result.
has never had good facial development.
But Michael was the next one in line.
You can see that his face
is totally different from mine.
It was mainly that
I was just clever about him.
-And Rosarie...
- Hey.
His younger sister.
I think even cleverer still. you know.
You do get a bit better in life with luck.
As the eldest. I was the first guinea pig.
And therefore. some of
the contraptions I wore
were possibly a little bit more crude.
I remember Bill being
taped up to this headgear
that an alarm used to go off
if his mouth fell open.
Well. initially. they hadn't
got the alarm quite right.
so before he reali--
there was something underneath
with a sharp object there.
If my jaw dropped. it would be--
I would describe it as uncomfortable.
Poor William.
He wore that very well
and never complained.
None of them complained.
We were fair game for experimentation.
Oh. I'm sure that he'd be done now.
for the amount of experimenting
that he did on us.
One of his experiments was to see
what would happen to facial development
if someone didn't chew.
So if someone just swallowed
and just did. like. baby food
for the first three years--
two. maybe three years.
Let's be generous.
There was only two and half years.
Pretending it was breastfeeding.
as if you were breastfeeding.
Yes.
We used to breastfeed children
for two to three years.
We now do it for less than six months.
It is one of the biggest lifestyle changes
that we've made in the human race.
And I'm sure it's the main reason
why there are so many ugly people around.
Everyone would have their Sunday dinner.
and mine would have gone
through the Magimix.
And I'd be given this bottle.
and I just thought
it was completely normal
that I had. as Dad always talks about.
one of the largest malocclusions ever.
- Yes.
- Because I had
- It was a disaster.
- this tiny. tiny little jaw
because I hadn't chewed.
So he wrote lots of research papers.
And I think my mother. I was about three.
and sort of said.
"Right. we're going to start
giving her ordinary food now.
So then he was very excited.
But then he started putting a brace in me.
And he created the largest expansion
that he'd ever done on anyone before.
because I went from this very.
very crowded malocclused...
- Is that the right word?
- Malocclusion. yeah.
...place to quite a big jaw.
as I have now. so...
So he created the problem and--
- Well. he didn't mean
- And then fixed it.
to create the problem.
My daughter. Rosarie.
has a very good-looking face.
I mean. she's--
I hate to think how old now.
She must be in her late 50s.
No. she'd probably be horrified.
No. I think. late 40s. perhaps.
Not very good on ages.
Anyway. but she's got
lovely bone formation.
I experimented on my children.
and it worked.
I'm sure I should be put
in prison for that.
The human. when brought up naturally.
has no dental problems.
If a parent asks me.
"John. what's the best way I can do
to look after my children
and make sure
that they grow up correctly?"
I will say this simply.
"Sell your house.
buy a cave in the top of a mountain.
and don't cook any of your food."
and I think that's
a very good prescription.
John has created an island for himself.
And in that island. I think I'm there.
I think Mike's there.
And it gets a bit hazy after that.
My journey to orthotropics
has not been a straight line.
I was studying conventional orthodontics.
and I came across John's philosophy.
I have been trained through John.
and I follow John's technique
very closely.
One of the things that he answered for me
was why there is malocclusion.
which is when the teeth
end up out of alignment
and they grow crooked.
Human beings. we've always had jaws
and teeth that are fairly evenly balanced
and fairly straight.
In the last 300 years.
that has really shifted.
We live in a world today
where no one has straight teeth.
And so how do we go from
tens and tens and tens
of thousands of years
where everything was perfect
to one where every kid needs
some form of braces
to get the teeth straight?
We're taught that genetics
plays the primary role
in jaw development.
and John's thought was.
it's not possible
for genetics to be so precise.
for everything to line up perfectly
without any environmental influence.
- Have you got fingerprint?
- No.
I've just got the facial recognition.
Look at the phone. Nothing's happening.
Put it close to your face.
Did it open?
No. it doesn't recognize me.
But I bet you get voice recognition.
- See. it opened.
- Yeah. that's interesting.
Yeah. see. he's altered her jaw.
so I now can't get into her phone.
Yeah.
I didn't know it wasn't
traditional. you know. orthodontistry.
I thought I was getting
orthodontic treatment.
I had no idea that...
that I was one of the first people
that he was going to try
this procedure on.
We grew up on a farm.
His surgery was a long way.
and it was down country lanes.
We had a working class background.
He was a private dentist.
So he was a different strata to us.
We were always the twinnies. the twins.
She's twinny. I'm twinny.
We're absolutely identical.
Not so much now.
but we used to be totally identical.
couldn't tell us apart.
- I mean. we were just...
- Joined at the hip.
- Yes.
- Apart from the teeth.
I was really conscious of my teeth.
We both sucked our finger and thumb
from when we were little girls
until probably early teens.
Like that.
I had. you know. an overbite.
I remember being teased on the bus.
and. you know. I used to get called Lucky
'cause I had this big gap
in the middle of my teeth.
I used to be able to get a penny in.
So I never used to smile much.
and I was very conscious of my mouth.
- But you did smile. but you did this.
- All the time.
Like. I would always be like this
in the photographs.
We used to babysit for Dr. Mew.
and I can't remember how it came up
that he wanted to do
a treatment on my teeth.
Well. he only took one look at you
and realized you needed something doing.
Thank you. Yes. anyway.
You would have been a perfect patient.
of course. 'cause you had a control.
Exactly. you're my control.
which is probably why
we got the free dentistry.
- Yeah.
- Mm-hmm.
That's exactly why.
- That is why?
- Mm-hmm.
- You owe it all to me. Moi.
- Ha. there you go.
When you want to do good research.
no doubt. twins is the best way.
If you take a pair of twins and treat one
with one method
and one with another method.
you're going to get a very clear message.
because when you're treating twins.
they're both the same.
I had an appliance.
And it was called the Biobloc.
It was like a medieval torture instrument.
And I had to sleep with my bottom teeth
pulled out to almost
in front of my top teeth.
which isn't pleasant.
But I had great confidence in him
because he was so confident.
And I would do whatever it took
to finish that treatment.
which is what I did.
My mouth did change.
I mean. the gap in the front of my teeth
wasn't there anymore.
I felt far more confident about smiling.
So it was wonderful for me.
You know. it was the best thing
I could ever have done.
I'd probably still be living
at Heart Lake farm
if I hadn't had it done.
married with five children.
Okay. stop.
They became the first
of a series of six twins
who had had different treatment.
Elise. the twin
on the right in this picture
who does not need treatment.
has a larger and more pragmatic face.
Probably because of this.
her face looks more mature
than that of her sister.
Because I really wanted
to know the truth myself.
I didn't know if orthotropics
was better or worse.
I could then compare them.
and I was flabbergasted.
I said. "Eureka! That's obviously it."
And that was when I really produced
the label "orthotropics."
which means correct growth.
All plants are guided by tropisms.
where they will grow towards the light.
So growth is a tropism.
Plants grow. and in a way. so do faces.
What orthotropics is about
is redirecting the course of growth.
It's very easy to start.
terribly difficult to finish.
Initially. you're making room for teeth.
It's a very spectacular.
very appealing period.
The next phase of orthotropics
is where we develop the individual jaws
to be the incorrect shape.
And what tends to happen
is parents then say.
"This doctor has no idea
what they're doing.
and it is infinitely worse
than when we first started."
And then they will take them
to find a second opinion.
And they will say. "What has this man.
what has this woman done to your child?
They've wrecked your child."
The problem with orthotropics
is it looks good.
then it looks terrible.
and that lasts four years.
And then finally at the end of it.
it looks great.
Right. I let people know.
"This is a double black diamond."
If we travel here. you have to trust.
in the end. you'll end up
in a fantastic place.
We are training children
to work at a level
which is beyond what
we would normally expect.
Come take a seat.
The level of physical discipline
requires a commitment
that is not common today.
You have to train not only the children.
but their guardians. the parents.
Why was it you came
for treatment. actually?
Because I felt that recently.
Lisa's lower jaw was receding more.
We are talking
specifically about posture.
You cannot develop straight teeth
if you have bad oral posture.
How much do you hope
that this can be improved?
Well. I hope that her jawline
would look more normal
and that cosmetically
it would improve the outline
of her face and her jaw.
In orthotropics. we have appliances
that have a penalty nature to them.
This is your stage three appliance. Lisa.
and it's intended that it will be sore
if you drop the jaw down.
When John developed orthotropics.
he developed it in a world
where there were physical penalties
and punishments
when you didn't behave.
You know. I was smacked as a child.
I was smacked at school.
Six. seven. eight. nine. ten.
That's very good. indeed. Well done.
One of the things about human beings
is physical reminders trump
verbal nagging.
And that's how we change habits.
Those years that I went through treatment.
from the age. I think.
eight or nine through to 12.
And my brother had to go down
the traditional route
as a control.
And obviously. for John Mew.
the ability then to do that comparison.
compare and contrast.
The experience I had. it was quite brutal.
When I look back at it. I look back
and think it was just natural.
It was just part
of what I was going through.
And everybody else was going through it.
if they have orthodontistry.
But I now know that wasn't the case.
So...
Yeah. we as children
didn't really question why.
If he convinces the parent
that this is the right thing.
then the parents can be the overseer
and govern that the child does
what they're supposed to do.
um. which is kind of what happened.
- Your mom was overseeing?
- Yeah. Yeah.
She was supervising.
wasn't she?
Oh. you'd like to-- That's wonderful.
We're talking about parents and children.
Come on in. We'll figure it out.
- Yeah.
- What do you want to say?
Thank you for joining us.
I know this may seem--
Do you want to sit here?
- I could sit on the--
- Is that okay?
Yeah. yeah. No. that's it. Just...
- Why don't you sit here?
- I just wanted to mention
when you were talking about
the responsibility with the parents.
um. it came to the stage
where Quentin's teeth
were so far out and his jaw so far back.
he couldn't possibly
have been left like that.
I had horrors that John Mew
would drop down dead
and he'd be like. "Ah. ah. ah."
Yeah. so I couldn't really say.
you know. "This is too much."
because we were in it too deep.
But it was quite scary. It really was.
Ooh. Yeah.
So really. you're very lucky.
Well. it could have all gone
horribly wrong.
- Yeah.
- Yeah. true.
Could have been left with just the top.
What's happened to their faces?
Well. you can see that Ben's face
is slightly flatter and slightly longer.
whereas Quentin has more forward growth.
which I think perhaps gives
him a slightly better profile.
Twin studies. does that ring a bell?
John Mew actually doing a study on twins
doesn't exist.
He worked with six sets of twins.
Yes? Six sets of twins or six--
Yes. that's 12 people.
Twelve patients does not
a study make. ever.
I used to be an academic orthodontist.
and I started my career in London.
which is actually where I met John Mew.
I've known John Mew since the '60s.
My first interaction with Dr. Mew--
why do I call him Dr. Mew? Mr. Mew--
was when I was at the London
Hospital Medical School.
I was in charge
of the orthodontic department.
And one of my jobs
was to evaluate submissions
for an essay competition.
Mew put in his submission.
It was just as bad as everything else
he's written since.
Uh. fanciful. no science. no nothing.
I remember it
because it was a curious submission.
It had two illustrations.
and there were two fish tanks
with a bunch of trout in one of them
and no trout in the other. okay?
And the caption had something
to do with the fact that.
please observe how the trout's
snout anatomy changed
because they were pressing
their face against the glass
of the fish tank.
And so that was his argument.
which I had to reject.
because it had no science in it.
So the next thing I know
is he telephoned me
and wanted to come and see me
at the London Hospital.
And he accused me
of suppressing his reality and his truth
because I disagreed with his premises.
I said. I don't disagree
with your premise.
I just disagree with crappy science.
I don't care who you are. you know?
He didn't like to hear that either.
It's never easy to change
people's ideas. so I tried.
I wrote papers. I gave meetings.
I gave lectures.
I had long chats with people.
I'd pull people into a corner
and browbeat them.
You know. the usual things.
I was just hoping to reason with people
and they'd see the truth
or the light. as I might say.
It's what every parent
wants for their child.
a perfect smile.
But does that smile mask a hidden danger?
I didn't push it
until a program called Dispatches.
If my views were accepted.
orthodontics would
have to change dramatically.
And indeed. many people would either
have to change the way they worked
or give up doing orthodontics.
But there's a clear comparison between us
as twins in favor
of the orthodontistry method
of Dr. Mew's. right?
And how do you feel about that?
In hindsight. I would have preferred
to gone with Mr. Mew's method.
That was on national television.
And the next day. every single one
of the English national dailies
had half or full-page articles
on what I'd said.
The orthodontists all thought
that I behaved absolutely appallingly.
Essentially. I had been
a traitor to the cause.
And they said.
"You'll shatter people's faith
and make them think
orthodontics is no good."
which. in a way. was what I was trying
to tell them anyway.
From then on.
I was always in conflict
with orthodontics.
There was really no option. was there?
A leading London dentist claims
current orthodontic methods
sometimes straighten the teeth.
but they then ruin the face.
That's at the center of a bitter row
in the world of orthodontics.
Can you see the two
sharp spikes on that plate?
Well. I got very angry. I looked at it.
I could not believe someone
could put that in a child's mouth.
I'm accusing all the people
who treat your way
of ripping off the parents.
And it's child abuse.
I provide them appliance
which is designed to hurt
if the child drops their jaw.
You might call that child abuse.
I would call it training.
That's crap.
The establishment were initially hoping
that when he reached
sort of the age of 60 or something.
he would either retire or sort of mellow.
Um. if anything.
the opposite has happened.
He was still poking the beast
year after year after year.
I've even been threatened
with assault at meetings.
People hate me with a depth
that's really quite surprising.
I even went to the length
of marching up and down
the principal medical area in London
with a big sandwich board
saying what I thought about orthodontics.
It was words to the effect
that orthodontics damages faces.
which is true.
On the cover of your book.
you have the Galileo quote.
Oh. yeah. "Eppur si muove."
Galileo said that in a loud whisper...
...as he turned his back on the Pope.
And he very nearly lost his life for that.
Essentially. he was talking
about the world and the sun.
He was saying the world moves.
And I put the same phrase
in relation to the jaws.
Of course. the orthodontists
didn't quite see that.
They saw it that I was treating patients
in an improper way.
So the orthodontists approached
the General Dental Council.
the authority which grants
licenses in England.
and said. "Look. this man's
doing the wrong thing.
We've got to stop him."
So three years ago.
I had my license
to practice dentistry removed.
They really felt
they needed to strike him off
in order to try and besmirch him.
But I think possibly
the biggest shock in store
was that there simply wasn't just one Mew.
There's--there's another one
following in his footsteps.
Mike. specifically.
has taken over the family business.
- The mantle.
The mantle. as Mom would say.
I would say--I would say
the sort of noose around the neck.
- I love that.
- He's taken on that big challenge.
You know. you used to have.
the plowman would do what his father did.
You know. the plowman's son
would become a plowman.
And that became your universe.
And in a way. what my father
did became my universe.
And it was at a very young age.
I decided I was gonna do this.
Michael turned to me and said. "Rosie.
I think I might slowly
be turning into Dad."
And I said. "What do you mean.
'turning into'?
You've been there
for about ten years already."
- There's been a Mini-Me.
- Mini-Me.
There's been a Mini-Me
following in Dad's footsteps.
He's not your average father.
Few people have fathers like I do.
You know. he is just a--
you know. he's an inspiration.
Bye.
Seeing my father being
attacked and criticized
has been one of the things
that's driven me forwards.
It just makes your blood boil...
'cause I've seen my father
just be destroyed.
Reverse. reverse. reverse.
Full throttle. Full throttle.
I didn't think that
I could study orthodontics
in the UK because
everyone so vehemently disagrees
with my father.
And that's one of the reasons
I went to Denmark.
I chose Denmark. being. you know.
one of the top orthodontic programs
on the planet.
But I just. you know. I shudder
at what they were teaching me at times.
Just lift the chair up for you.
- That feel okay?
- That's fine.
For about 20 years.
I worked side by side with my father
at least one day a week.
The timer has now failed
on the stage four.
We want Thea wearing it 12 hours a day.
She forgot her appliance.
And it's quite apparent
she's only wearing it at night.
We have two chairs
literally in the same room.
chatting with him about life.
the times. and everything.
And I just have nothing
but happy memories of that.
Then I took over
and it sort of became my clinic.
I literally thought
this would never go anywhere.
but I couldn't bear to do
conventional orthodontics
where I felt I was damaging
people's faces and health.
Orthotropics is what I was born to do.
Very good for you. yogurt.
Well. this is what everyone says--
Or what they were saying.
And all of a sudden. apparently
yogurt is not good for you anymore.
and it's full of sugar.
Yes. I...
I swallow the description
that it's full of the right bacteria.
When you consider
the state of our knowledge.
I think it's abysmal.
How are we getting on with the omelet?
I'm wondering whether to have
some shredded wheat or not.
Well. I think--
I think we are almost omelet-ready.
There we go. sir.
- Fantastic.
- Your omelet.
You're very good with omelets.
Whenever I do them.
they're either too wet or too dry.
There's a very odd smell
coming from your fridge.
Some milk has drained
into your smoked haddock. Dad.
You put cheese in it. didn't you?
- I know.
- Which is lovely. but of course.
it's become very stringy.
Dad's done all of this great stuff.
come up with all these great ideas.
But no one knew about it.
And I knew in orthotropics
there was something interesting.
Almost anyone I have a conversation with
is fascinated with this.
And yet here we have this really dry topic
that I couldn't get out there.
But my father's been trying
for 30. 40 years. if not more.
and he's not made-- got this idea out.
And now we've got social media.
And my bet here is that social media
is going to somehow give us wings.
If you can't breathe out of your nose.
you're forced to either die
or breathe out of your mouth.
We were just throwing things out there.
throwing anything we could.
Did Brad Pitt have
a stronger jawline in the past?
This way.
And it was really a scattergun approach
to see if we could get people interested
in what we were doing.
I now have 14 sticks
of chewing gum in my mouth
all at one time.
As this occurs. it narrows.
and asymmetries automatically accumulate.
Is that comfortable. Tasha?
It was my objective
to get something to go viral.
You just hold that eye contact.
you know. with a cheeky smile
on your face.
Eye contact with a cheeky smile.
that's magical for a girl.
Someone saw one of my videos.
thought that was interesting.
and I was just asked to give a lecture
at a conference called the 21 Conference.
I think. something like that.
We're in good hands. Let's welcome Mike.
It was the type of thing
that if I'd done proper research.
I'd have never done.
I teach seduction for life.
I am so bored and sick of teaching people
how to walk up and stare at girls
and stop them and go. "Hello."
If you like women and you want to have
sex with women and date them--
Who likes girls?
Put your hands up real quick.
all the people who like women. All right.
Of course. a lot of them.
I showed how to have their first orgasm.
It was great. you know.
They'll--they'll be
real thankful for that.
What gives you a good face?
I know that I look better now
than I did ten years ago.
Because I've made a concerted effort
to get my tongue on the roof
of my mouth...
and chew more. a bit more chewing gum.
That really is the thing.
After that. we noticed
people talking about me
and talking about
these exercises I presented.
If I could plug you in
like they do in Matrix
and upload a good tongue function pattern.
I think I could get you all
to grow fantastically.
We were monitoring my name
on the internet.
We then found a few alerts went out
on a forum called SlutHate.
And it was this world of incels
that I really didn't know much about.
People were talking
about that lecture I'd given
and what they could do
to improve themselves.
So I gave some responses.
Hi.
Thank you for quite a lot of interest
from a number of forums.
in particular.
a forum I'm responding to here
called "SlutHate." as it happens.
The first response came
from IncelExecutioner.
I do love some of the names
you've got here.
BetaGayFace. you asked about face pulling.
A question from Kushmaster.
And then final one. um. Yul Brynner.
Why did I engage with them.
and why did I respond to that?
I guess it's an instinctive thing
to get the information
out there to help people.
Most people go through
this period of time.
I went through this period of time
when I was a young teenager
and I felt gawky and awkward
and I couldn't chat a girl up.
I couldn't-- you know.
it was quite difficult.
I can understand this group of people
gravitated to orthotropics
because. in essence.
this was a sort of secret
that had never been divulged
to them before
that was the answer
to all of their problems.
I'm literally turning--
yes. I'm turning the dweeb to a Chad.
Yes. we engaged-- I engaged on SlutHate.
which is one of those things.
again. if anyone asks you.
never go and engage with people
on this sort of thing.
But science isn't PC.
Science is as you find it.
But. you know. I'd have done a deal
with the devil to get this across.
We've been overwhelmed in response
and interest from people.
It was just--it was a revelation to me.
It was really just nice.
It was nice to actually have an audience
who wanted to listen to you
rather than the door being closed
at every opportunity.
I didn't really cognitively think ahead
of what was happening.
But I could see this thing growing.
All of a sudden. it was like
Pandora's box had been opened.
That exercise is called mewing.
and it's supposed to give you
more defined and sculpted jawline.
Here is an example
of a before and an after.
You can see that her jawline
is more defined.
All you have to do is place your tongue
on the roof of your mouth.
and then you just close your lips.
In this video.
I will be telling you
how long it takes to see results
from mewing.
This is Joey.
He heard about a technique called mewing.
which is the proper posture of the tongue.
Mm. Mm. Mm. Mm.
In the long run. it's actually shown
to improve your face bone structure.
I was not expecting the mewing thing.
That's not what I expected to happen.
This really sort of academic. medical.
dry. difficult to understand
complex of orthotropics
that we'd struggled to get out there
suddenly became sexy.
In yoga. just imagining.
like. the cat's back rounded.
that's your tongue. like. rounded out.
Ah.
I've been amazed
at what's been occurring recently.
I'm wondering when my surname
became a verb.
M-E-W-I-N-G. mewing.
Mewing has changed my life.
What's up. guys? It's Tomazzo here.
I look better. I'm healthier. I'm fitter.
But having strong jaw muscles
is also important
because it makes your face
look much better.
even for girls too.
It kind of fixed everything.
It just didn't fix one or two things.
It's revolutionary.
It's gonna transform the world.
like. maybe. probably.
If you want to develop a healthier face.
if you want to fulfill
your genetic potential.
identify it. work on it.
feel that posture a third of the time.
I've got so many kids who are being forced
through orthodontics by their parents.
Mm.
All of a sudden. the idea of mewing
was just this antidote to all of that.
And also. it resonated with "good looks."
Mewing is not cat.
Mew. It's not cat.
It's the correct tongue posture.
Tongue is up and flat.
On the soft palate like a trampoline.
- Hi.
- Hi. Excited to meet you.
- How are you?
- My name's Koko.
I'm Kim.
Thank you so much for coming.
- Scott.
- It's good to meet you. Koko.
- Hi. how are you?
- Thank you.
Have you done any face exercise
- or face yoga or anything like that?
- No.
Mm.
Mewing is a huge part of our method.
face yoga.
Mike Mew is like a legendary doctor
in our community.
He's like our god.
If you want to get freaked out.
type "Mike Mew is God"
into the internet and hashtags.
Oh. gosh. it freaks me out.
Like. I mean. yes.
I've become a messiah to people.
You do have a very good jawline.
I tell you what.
Yeah. you see?
My goodness. me.
And there came a point
when I actually thought to myself.
"Look. we've got the chance
of going around the system."
I believe Mike Mew.
- who I actually had on my podcast--
- Mewing.
Yeah. mewing. exactly.
Mike Mew. I think has cracked the case.
That is crazy. Is that real?
- Yes.
- Yeah. yeah.
- She has like this little tiny ass jaw.
- That is real.
and then she developed a real normal one.
Yeah.
Victor Hugo said.
"No army can stop an idea
whose time has come."
You can't put the genie
back in the bottle.
And I don't care
whether this came out of SlutHate.
I don't care whether this came
through the British Orthodontic Society.
It came. and it became popular.
And now we can be
on to the proper challenge
of scientific engagement. the next step.
For me. the ancestral movement
is this return
to how our Paleolithic ancestors lived.
moved. and ate. and just understanding
that the more we emulate how they sat
and squatted and kind of moved.
the healthier we became.
And that's what
this whole symposium is about.
It's the ancestral health movement.
Next movement is the crawl.
just like a baby would crawl
except the knees don't touch.
I've been on a personal journey
in trying to reverse
what's happened to me.
My journey was a little bit more invasive.
It's called a transpalatal distractor.
and it was surgically installed.
And I turn that device every other day
to widen my upper arch.
Doctor's goal is to make
my nasal cavity wider
so I can breathe at night.
Before this. I could not breathe
through my nose at all.
I didn't have any idea why.
I was just. like.
going into research wormholes. confused.
I had no idea what was happening to me
until I discovered mewing.
So understanding craniofacial dystrophy.
as Mike Mew calls it. helped me understand
what happened to me.
Incorporating his philosophy
is curing my sleep apnea.
It's literally. like. saving my life.
Personally. I find him to be like an idol.
like someone who's championing the truth
right now in the scientific world
where it's really hard
to come up with new ideas.
All right. this is starting
to feel a bit like the Oscars.
We've got a superstar coming up right now.
none other than Dr. Mike Mew.
He's an orthodontist from London
and an expert in oral posture
and rehabilitation.
He's here to discuss how the way in which
we hold our mouths
affects how our faces will grow.
how we'll breathe. and more.
What I'm trying to do is I'm trying
to start pulling everyone together
to make this movement.
And I've never done that before.
I don't quite know what to do.
This is the biggest disease you've all got
that you don't know about.
Because it's in your face.
It is your face.
You know. you don't want to admit this.
It's uncomfortable to admit it.
You're all affected. You're all deformed.
You know. we've never really had this.
where a group of people come together.
fomented on the internet.
You know. we had
the Arab Spring where people--
the social media helped
get people together
as a cohesive group to gain change.
Um...
now I want to try and do
the same thing in medicine.
you know. by the people.
for the people type of thing.
And what we really need is a revolution.
Many of you here will be
affected by the problems I'm saying.
you know. forward head posture.
snoring. sleep apnea.
My father's focus on facial beauty
has definitely held
this whole science back.
and there is no real way around that.
He goes full on. full throttle to beauty.
And I think that harms his message.
People seem to care so much
more about how they look
than how healthy they are.
But if I can use that
to get people to be healthier.
then great. I'll do what I want.
If your face didn't grow well.
you may be looking ugly.
That is your fault. and that may well have
significant health implications.
You know?
I'm saying don't be happy
with where you are.
Get off your ass and change.
And. Mike. how about
for craniofacial dystrophy.
what can we do right now?
What can everyone
in this room do right now
to help reverse this?
Stand up straight and shut your mouth.
Speaking of chewing.
it's lunchtime. everybody.
So thank you very much for coming.
Thank you to the entire panel.
Michael gets upset with me
because I talk a lot
about facial appearance
and attractiveness.
He says that that is counterproductive
to the idea of promoting orthotropics.
I say nonsense.
Anybody can make themselves
really good-looking
if they try. well.
certainly by the age of ten.
As a five-year-old.
I had a beautifully shaped face.
Lovely. round. a bit square.
Very attractive.
But at the age of nine.
I started to leave my mouth open.
And the whole shape of my face
changed really quite dramatically.
And I can remember going from being
a square-faced boy to a long-faced boy.
I do remember one girl
I rather fancied saying.
"You know. the boy with the long face."
referring to me.
So yes. people did notice.
But I've always been
a fairly lively individual.
Therefore. I don't think
that it handicapped me that much.
But it did mean
I didn't get the pretty girls.
Your face is your fortune.
without the slightest doubt.
Good-looking people
have all the advantages.
This was a drawing
that I asked a professional artist
to make for me to represent
what I thought was a truly beautiful face.
I sent it back to the painter.
I would think. ten times. saying.
"Please alter this. please alter that."
And I'm still not really happy with it.
I really believe that in our mind.
imprinted in our subconscious.
we know exactly
what the perfect face looks like.
And we know within one or two millimeters.
And we actually measure that.
We have an instrument
which we call an indicator ruler.
Very simple.
And you put this bit there
under your teeth like that.
And then you touch your nose.
I would say this part of my face
is probably that much too far back.
Twenty. twenty-five millimeters.
That's a huge measurement.
- These 20 millimeters...
- Yes.
What difference
have they made in your life?
Um. I-- I would have been good-looking.
Don't underestimate
the long-term effects
of gaining habits.
And it's very difficult
to enthuse children--
Elbows off the table. Jessica.
Elbows off. Elbows off.
Good girl.
Enthuse children at an older age
to change deeply ingrained habits.
And a habit learned at this age
can become a lifetime's change.
Elbows off the table.
There. There we go. Lips together.
Michael is a little bit--
he's a little bit strange.
And we're all strange in some ways.
But. um. I do take him as he is.
And I'm fine with it. you know?
Yeah. it's perfect. Milla.
I couldn't have met someone
more perfect than you.
- you know. honestly.
- No way.
- Yeah. no. honestly.
- No one better than me?
No. no. no. no. you're right.
He said to me straightaway. um.
"You have nice teeth."
- That's okay.
- Yeah.
Yeah. it's a good line.
Mm.
Oh. you're both chewing.
- Yeah. For later.
- You're a gum-chewing family.
- Yes. we try and force it
- Yeah.
on the kids. as well.
Okay. here's a gravy.
Don't lean on the table. just serve it.
Daddy. today I had
a chocolate pudding for lunch.
You had a chocolate pancake
for pudding for lunch today?
- Dear me.
- Chocolate inside.
- Lucky girl. eh?
- Lucky girl.
Yeah. what is that school feeding you. eh?
- No. not school.
- No. it's Mummy. actually.
- It was Mummy. was it?
- It's the lunch box. yeah.
Oh. yeah. right. the lunch box.
- Lips closed.
- Don't speak with your mouth full.
Lips together. Zarina.
Lips together. I can see the kale
sticking out your mouth.
Personal vlog. September the 25th. 2018.
I have been expelled
from the British Orthodontic Society.
The decision was unanimous.
And to quote
a paragraph from the decision.
"Having listened to what you had to say
and having considered the matter in full.
the unanimous decision of the board
is that. in our opinion.
your conduct is contrary
to the interests of the society."
Now. they all went on to say
that they felt the social media campaign
that I've run seems to demonstrate
an unhealthy obsession with publicity
to the detriment of patients.
Um. now. I don't want to be taken
into a dark corner
and mugged quietly.
What I would really like to do
is just get someone to engage in debate.
So I want to go along
to the British Orthodontic
Society Conference.
It's the big conference of orthodontics.
If I had to give you
one word about how I feel just now
about being at conference again
in Manchester and seeing everybody.
I think that it's summed up
in the word "giddy."
I think one of the biggest problems
is that lots and lots of patients
who have heard about me
or seen my videos online
are asking difficult questions
the orthodontists can't answer.
The closer we get to Manchester.
the closer we get
to the British Orthodontic Society.
the more scared I get.
You know. there's no other word.
You know. it's just--
It's really hard to do this.
It's really. really hard.
You know. I've never had
a full scientific discussion
or engagement with any orthodontist.
probably ever in my life. never.
You know. and I think that's a shame.
I would imagine that most people
at this conference
would describe me as a charlatan.
I think they probably think
I'm a bit stupid and a bit mad.
I mean. just wake up.
You know. actually read a bloody paper.
Actually ask yourself the question.
You did blindly follow the orthodontist
'cause they're your mates.
Yeah. actually do
what you were trained to do
and look at the basic evidence.
You know. you go into the lion's den.
That's where I'm going now.
I. un. I got a sense.
and by a sense. I mean a number of emails
from Nigel Harradine.
- Yeah.
- who was the head of the BSSO.
- Now the BOS.
- Yeah.
And he-- What came across
was a real Mew fatigue.
The vast body of orthodontists
in this country
who are well trained who go on courses
who read the literature and keep up.
they're basing their practice
on the best available evidence.
And some people just like to perhaps feel
that they are slightly crying
in the wilderness.
He used a few terms.
"The science falls
on their completely deaf ears."
and. "They are an ancient fossil
with no adherents."
and. "Irrelevant noisy fringe."
and. "What they're selling is a scam."
Right.
I totally agree with every word
you've just cited.
What I disagree with is that somebody
as important
as a former head of the British Society
for Orthodontics.
it's not enough to say.
"I'm sick of hearing Mewisms."
What he should be doing
is use the scientific method
and say why it's rubbish.
Point out what's wrong with the Mews
and how the Mews have the responsibility
to prove that what they're saying
has some merit. scientific merit.
The Orthodontic Society is not doing it.
And I suspect the reason
that they're not doing it
is because some of the things
that orthodontists do
are equally culpable.
equally without foundation.
One has to look back
at the last modern century
of orthodontic practice
to fully understand the business.
Edward Angle probably
was one of the greatest tinkerers
in all of health care history.
He was almost like a Thomas Edison
of orthodontia.
And in that time. the late 1890's.
there was a Victorian concept
that man needed to achieve nature's ideal.
And Angle was a subscriber
to this point of view.
He looked at how teeth come together.
which is called occlusion.
and he came up
with a classification system
of what he believed
was nature's intended ideal.
Edward Angle was the first one
to start a school of orthodontics.
and thereby. he had a monopoly
of orthodontic education.
He had this ancient skull.
which had 32 teeth in perfect alignment.
And that became--
by dictum. by Angle's rule.
this is the aim of treatment.
If God didn't want you to have 32 teeth.
he would have given you 28. right?
From that point forward.
that became the gold standard
that you were supposed to achieve
at the end of treatment.
And he concentrated.
over the course of his lifetime.
the best way to move those teeth.
With each step towards facility.
more people jumped on the bandwagon.
Angle defined it as a standard of beauty
because it was ideal.
Ideal and normal and beauty
all became conflated
in one concept. the orthodontic ideal.
And therefore. come to me.
your lovely. friendly orthodontist.
and I'll make you look normal
by arranging your 32 teeth
exactly the same way as his and hers
and hers and his and then the other.
Everybody should look the same.
That's the goal of orthodontics.
I mean. just because you have
a Korean child here
and a Spanish child there.
to hell with it.
Just do everybody the same.
'cause everybody wants to look the same.
Everybody wants to look good.
Everybody wants to look
like an American model or a film star.
Is there anything wrong with that?
The British Orthodontic Society
is just a club.
You don't need to be a member
of the British Orthodontic Society.
Now. the problem with this is that
they had already
referred me to the General Dental Council.
The General Dental Council
holds my license to practice.
So. we will have a hearing
at the General Dental Council in November.
And in November. they're going to decide
whether or not to take my license away.
So. I tried to engage some people
in conversation.
and it is literally.
"No. I don't want to talk to you."
You know. it's really quite oppressive
for you to be in a place
where 50% of the people are blanking you.
And you know--you know.
you can see people touching
and talking about you
and pointing you out.
You know. this whole thing.
what I'm doing.
it really takes courage to do this.
You know. I'm impressed with my father.
He's got thicker skin than I've got.
Maybe he didn't at my age and he grew.
I'm slightly concerned
that this is going to be a story about you
rather than about orthotropics.
I don't--I don't think you want that.
but I think they're gonna make it that.
Hi. Mike.
So the GDC now know
- you've taken the case.
- They do.
- So they've been informed of that. Okay.
- Yes. they've been informed.
- So they're waiting on you.
- They know that there'll be a time lag.
- obviously. for us to catch up.
- Yes. Yeah.
I've been going
through the very interesting statement
- of Stephen Powell.
- Mm.
Now. you know that's...
- nearly 200 pages long.
- Good bedtime reading.
Yeah. Nearly 200 pages long
- with about 200 pages of appendices.
- Mm.
I'm working my way through that slowly.
But the accusation is fundamental.
It's root and branch.
- They say what you're saying
- Yeah.
- is total nonsense.
- A total nonsense. yes.
In essence. he's calling you a charlatan.
- Mm. One of us is a charlatan.
- But--
Okay.
Well. the trial. I think.
in the next few months
- is going to work out which one.
- Yes.
The allegations against him
are quite lengthy.
So. I'll just give you a flavor
of what they are.
Basically. what the GDC is saying
or what the prosecution is saying
is that he was making claims
about his procedures
which have no scientific basis.
so saying. "We can do X and Y."
In fact. he knew
that he could not achieve X and Y.
A second part of it
is that he was advocating
the need for treatment
where they are saying
actually there was no need
for treatment at all.
In terms of the expert evidence
against him.
they are saying that the whole thing
is basically snake oil.
Undoubtedly. orthotropics is on trial.
I mean. I'm concerned for Michael.
I'm his father.
But I've been through
the same battle myself.
and I know that Michael
- will not get a fair trial.
- I can--
What do you think about the new barrister?
He has asked for all the cash up front.
Now. that's very unusual with a barrister.
Not--not top barristers in London.
Well. I've not come across it yet.
Yeah. 'cause you've not been playing
in that game yet.
- Oh. I don't think you're right.
- Oh. maybe.
On one occasion.
- I took the minister of health to court.
- To the high court.
- Yes. you did. didn't you?
- I did not get much higher than that.
My case is different.
So tactically. as we start up
till my court case.
could maybe not be too critical
of the whole orthodontic profession.
Yes. I mean.
when talking to orthodontists.
I'm always very polite.
The ideal way and the way we've agreed...
- Right.
- We're trying not to be
too immediately insulting
about fixed braces.
Um. you are. I'm not.
You won't separate me on that.
Fixed braces should never be used.
They damage the teeth.
the roots. and the face.
Then say fixed appliances
can damage faces.
not that they always do it.
No. Michael. I really can't.
- Okay. Okay.
- I'm sorry.
We won't agree on that.
- I am not good at changing people's minds.
- Yes.
- No.
- But I do speak the truth.
If Michael is going soft on that.
it's because he doesn't want
to rock the boat too much.
but it's true.
Dad. you were a property developer.
That's how you made your money.
- Yes.
- You could-- Later in your career.
you could afford to lose your license.
Yes.
You know. I've got a young--
I've got a young family.
You know. for me. I mean. I've--
I've sold my house for the proceeds.
Now I've just taken the deposit
for buying another house
and blown that as well.
So this is everything.
I've put everything into it.
This is everything of my life.
So. I think-- And also.
my father has already lost his license.
You know. we don't have a backup now.
I'm plan B. Plan B's got to work.
Obviously. he paid
quite a big money for that barrister.
Michael said. "Do you think--
can I pay that money to the lawyer
instead of buying a house?"
And I said. "Well. if you think
it's the right thing to do. you do it."
So. when you have family.
you know. it's what you do.
Hundred percent I'm sure
that he gonna win that case.
Otherwise. I would be very--
it will be--I will be just...
How should I say?
I'm gonna invite the barrister for tea.
It's a familiar narrative
all the way through history.
David and Goliath.
big corporations. the small guy.
the whistleblower.
He has. I think.
the understandable difficulty
that he's very emotionally invested.
This is now two generations of individuals
that are protecting a theory
and a way of treatment.
whether that lives or dies.
I-- My life is layers and layers
and layers of stress at the moment.
It's worries about my career.
how that-- If I lose my license.
you know. how I will let
all my patients down.
You know. I'm worried about
moving the science I'm doing forwards.
You know. because I know
what I can achieve.
And I know that I'm not getting
the halfway there
with my patients at the moment.
What's been happening
since I saw you last time?
Not much.
Okay.
When you mean not much.
what do you mean by not much?
Uh. I mean nothing really major
or noticeable--
or noticeable
other than traveling happened.
All right. have you been wearing
your Myobrace much?
Uh. no.
What about the chewing gum?
I did a bit on some airplanes.
Have you been working on trying
to improve your posture?
A little bit.
But you've not really done anything?
- No.
- Okay.
Wider. Close a little bit.
You gave me the distinct impression
that you didn't want
to do any more treatment
the last time I talked to you.
I have no recollection
- of the last conversation.
- Yeah.
Well. I make notes.
Orthotropics is completely--
it's completely compliance-dependent.
And I'm treating most people
who have no real idea of the benefit
they're gonna gain from this.
They don't realize that this is probably
one of the most important things
they're ever. ever going to do.
And they can't be bothered
to wear the brace in the afternoons.
Adam. if you could commit
to chewing gum...
It's hard to find a steady supply
of certain gum
- No. no--
- at the moment.
- Just a minute. I will--
- Say what really you've been--
Don't worry about the logistics. Adam.
Okay.
Think about what would be
the desired outcome.
All right.
Thank you. sir.
Work hard.
Get back in the Myobrace.
- Let's talk in two weeks' time.
- Okay.
All right? Okay. Thank you very much.
For once. I found someone
that doesn't squeeze my hand too hard.
That wasn't too hard. was it?
No. he's saying that it's the first time--
For once I found someone.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
So thank you.
- Take care.
- Bye.
I have no musical training.
no musical background.
no ability to sing.
I picked up my child's ukulele.
and suddenly. music started
to flow into me.
And I wrote this song called "The Lies."
It's seven minutes long.
♪ Water isn't H20 ♪
♪ It's a story you've been told ♪
♪ What is truth and how do you know ♪
♪ Who's telling those lies ♪
♪ History. history ♪
♪ It's a trickster's symphony ♪
♪ Rockefeller. medicine
And orthodontics too ♪
♪ Carefully designed
To keep disease in you ♪
♪ If you won't see
When you're being fooled ♪
♪ Parasites over you will rule ♪
♪ Ooh. the lies we've been sold ♪
♪ Re-examine everything you're told ♪
Whoa. this trial. I mean. you know--
You know. I should be
clinically depressed.
Whoa. whoa. Over the top.
The reason I'm not
is 'cause I'm on a mission.
We're now two months away.
And I'm agitated-- I go to bed agitated.
I wake up in the middle
of the night agitated.
And I've got so much to do
that I haven't done yet.
you know. just mountains of work.
Let's break up tasks.
Then I can sit and get on.
Yeah. so that's the one thing.
Because I'll need some quiet time
for me to get on with.
I would have liked to be
so much further ahead.
I would have liked to have
so much more media engagement.
I've gotta increase the web presence
as much as possible.
And I'm just so behind
where I wanted to be.
You know. having to phone Dianne up
and plan the video we're gonna do.
And it--it's really hard.
How's about. shall go see
if I can watch those two videos?
Yes.
That might be the best thing.
Okay. let me watch.
- Before tomorrow--
- I would have joined in
if I'd known there was a discussion.
- It doesn't matter.
- Yes.
Lots of points I would
have liked to have made.
But there's always a discussion.
- Always a discussion.
- Nobody tells me anything.
You've got the family you have
and then the family you choose.
And we kind of chose the Mews.
And I think that's mutual.
So yeah. that's a good feeling.
I want a real glamour shot. yeah.
Yeah. I'd like to have
a real glamour shot
of the two of you.
and Bill in the background.
- I'll lean forward.
- How's my jaw?
- Then it will be bigger.
- Yeah.
We live in Broek in Waterland.
which is a very small town near Amsterdam.
And I've got this receded chin.
And I always thought. "Well. you know.
that's just genetics
you don't know about."
But I think it was somewhere on Facebook
that somebody posted something like.
"You have to see this video
because it will change your life forever."
I was like. "Yeah. right."
But that was a video by Mike
doing the 21st Century Man convention.
And he was talking about all these things.
And then everything clicked.
It's like. "Oh. I've got this.
I've got this.
I've got this. I've got this."
And then one day. he asked for people
to come help with his YouTube channel.
And I thought.
"Why don't just drop this man
a letter or email?"
He said. "Yeah. well. I'm in a castle
next weekend with my family.
Do you want to come over?"
And we're like. "That's kind of weird.
but just let's-- let's go."
Let's-- You know. I've got twin boys.
Let's just go to England
and meet this YouTube guy
and see if we can help.
We were coming down here.
and we saw the castle.
and it just felt unreal.
It felt like we were welcomed
in some kind of Italian family.
And it clicked. just clicked.
I do think Mike
changes life for some. as he did mine.
To some of the Mews.
he's like the new god and messiah.
Well. maybe he is. Who knows?
For him. he's just
trying to do his best. like Jesus was.
We're gonna talk about--
the video we're gonna do now.
- Oh. yeah. let's go upstairs.
- Okay?
Wait. wait. just a little bit of planning.
So we're gonna go upstairs
and we're gonna start
by saying that we need
more nuance to the idea of beauty.
Don't respond just yet.
Just wait until we're upstairs.
- I can do that. all right.
- Okay.
We should do.
No. no. no. That's just the way it is.
We're YouTubers.
I'm just trying to quickly
put together
a PowerPoint presentation as we speak.
- It sounds a bit late for all that.
- Well. yeah--
Don't we just want to chat?
Okay. we're ready to go.
Hi. and welcome.
I'm sitting with my father.
and today we're gonna talk about
some more nuances to facial attractiveness
than just a square face.
So. Dad. I've got an image here.
These people had physically
better facial form
from a health perspective.
I look at those faces.
and they don't terribly appeal to me.
I'm always attracted
to dimples in the cheeks
and there are very few there.
Remember-- Sorry--
Remember to look at the camera.
Well. I'm talking to the interviewer.
If I have to talk about anything.
I find it very difficult
to be directed on this.
So we need to be--
And I can see all sorts
of difficulties already.
But that's what we want to discuss.
Yes. I've got very specific ideas.
- Fine. first of all. we--
- Absolutely.
First of all-- Wait.
This is Rubens.
Many times.
Many times. it's not a new one.
- Yes. No.
- At the time.
this is what was considered attractive.
That time. there's no doubt
that fat people were considered.
shall I say. more attractive.
more appealing.
I think. would perhaps a better word.
And then. of course. we've moved on
to this era of these
incredibly thin models.
Yes. I have always preferred
the 38". 22". 36" shape myself.
And I actually think that's probably
a little bit more natural.
And looking at our ancestors
of 20.000 years ago.
they hardly had any such mouths.
Now they're relatively common.
I've not seen research on that.
No. No. nor have I.
So you've just--
Remember. I am someone
who is a lateral thinker.
Yeah. yeah. I--
And I have very little science.
- It's mostly logic.
- But--but--
I mean. my biggest problem
often is my father.
I'm certain that. to some extent.
my father stands in the way
of his own legacy
by being so pigheaded and obstinate.
- All right.
- Thank you for watching.
Thank you very much for watching.
- I'll see you next time.
- See you next time.
Thank you very much for watching.
See you next time.
Uh. something--
Yeah. you need editing.
But that's. uh-- Yeah.
You know. well.
they say you should never work
with animals and children or your father.
Okay. let's just get
a little bit more around your ears here.
Try not to cut your
hearing aid off. though. eh?
There you go. Popsies.
- Beautiful.
- Right. thank you.
Don't leave me over here.
Okay. hang on. I'm coming back.
I'm coming.
Well. unfortunately. the years count on.
And nowadays.
almost all my friends have died.
I must say that my friends
that died when they were young
had fantastic funerals.
But when I die. there's going--
Nobody's going to be there.
Don't worry about that. Dad. I--
I have--
- You'll make sure it's a good send-off.
- I'll make sure you get a good send-off.
Right. with lots of alcohol.
With lots of-- Yes. yes.
shame I don't drink anymore.
Yes. let's have a bloody good party.
- Mike. for your campaign website...
- Yes?
- When does it need to be live?
- Thursday.
What's happening on Thursday?
Thursday. I'm gonna dress up
as Martin Luther.
Are you? How wonderful.
So then I'm gonna go in.
I'm gonna hammer my ten principles
to the door of the GDC.
Can I just inquire. why--
why Martin Luther King?
It's not Martin Luther King.
It's Martin Luther.
Martin Luther was
a Protestant who nailed--
Rosie. there's no--
there's no flame under this chorizo.
Yes. I just turned it off
'cause I'm not quite ready.
Okay. All right.
So he set out Protestant principles
against the Catholic Church.
Right.
But he started
the Protestant church. basically.
And how do you dress as Martin Luther?
- I don't know.
- What does that--
what does a Protestant look like?
- Have you sorted out a costume?
- Have you got a costume?
Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Remember. the Germans
wore different clothes than the English.
I'm not sure about the--
I'm not sure about
the historical accuracy.
Are you very worried
that the orthodontic establishment
will have you up on inaccurate dress?
Yeah. I don't know.
I think damage to the door
might be top of their priority.
But you could just hammer--
How long has that asparagus been on?
It's got one minute. 18 to go.
Mike. I do mean this.
You need to have
a proper document drawn up
with the capital letters
in gold trimmed with red.
Right. Did you get that. Mike?
- It's very important.
- Way beyond
my calligraphy skills. so yes.
it'll be one of those days
where it'll all work out on the day.
Let's not worry too much about it.
Dr. Mew is obviously
a real character.
He's quite eccentric.
which I don't mind at all.
But we have to pull back
from being a bit crazy.
because there is a fine balance
between an eccentric professor type
and someone who's a bit crazy.
And to dress up as Martin Luther
would just be a sort of
a flippant thing to do.
And when you're going into
the GDC in a few months' time.
you don't want to walk past
their front door
with the nail marks in it
from where you pinned your request.
It just doesn't--
I can't see how it helps.
So I just said to him
I thought it was crazy
and not to do it.
and I would expect him
to follow my advice.
I got my...
Roughly a decade ago.
my father stood at this very spot
with a sandwich board
trying to raise awareness
of basically the same issues.
And. yeah. it didn't get anywhere.
And half of the reason I'm pushing so hard
is to gain him some recognition
while he's still capable
of appreciating it.
So here's my statement
to the world. to the GDC.
"For too long. our concerns
have not been heard or debated.
My speciality was becoming
more of a religion than a science.
We want the truth. the whole truth.
and no dogma."
I've signed this Martin Luther Mew.
And I was going to nail
one of these statements to the front door.
but I'm just cautious of imagery
that could be used to defame me.
Now I've gotta play the game. you know?
I've got to win this.
I've got to win this for everyone.
I've gotta win this.
I worry the slight pressure
that Dad's putting on Mike.
not in a nasty way. but just.
"We're almost there.
we're almost there. we're almost there.
If we just. if we just. if we just."
So it's like this
massive drive at the moment.
I think Michael is almost more driven
or more focused than Dad.
Dad-- I mean. Dad has done everything
and been everywhere.
If I was to die and be reincarnated
as anyone in the world.
I would come back as Dad.
Sorry.
'Cause he's done-- he's done--
- He has.
- I know you have. I know.
But his life. not your life. his life.
- Michael. I worry about him
- I'd just be
- slightly because he is...
- an absolute--
There's no point.
...totally insanely focused
on orthotropics
and has nothing outside of it.
- And I think part of it--
- Not nothing.
Not nothing. no. no. no. But you're--
Less than I should.
You're 80%.
- I mean. he's lived it to the full.
- You know. he was a racing car driver.
He holds records at Brands Hatch.
He happened to be--
He says-- He's. like.
the oldest person ever
- to get their Yachtmasters.
- Yeah.
- He's. you know--
- Skiing history.
Jousting.
On horseback with a large jousting lance.
Charging at someone else.
Charging to--
somewhat out of control.
He doesn't ride horses.
And then he said. "Okay.
we're gonna build a castle.
Kids. we're gonna build
a castle on an island
in the middle of a lake."
And we all went. "Yeah. okay. Dad."
You know. all our friends
thought we were bonkers.
- more so. more so than they did before.
- Yeah. yeah.
But mind you. I sometimes
think him building the castle
was a little bit like Churchill's war.
- You know. when--
- Therapeutic.
Therapeutic. yes.
It took his mind off--
the wilderness. yeah. well. he may as well
- 'cause he has forever.
- Well. I know I think
he thought that Biobloc and orthotropics
was going to hit in quicker.
And he just got so frustrated.
He said. "I need
something else for a legacy."
You've learned enough about me
to know that I'm a busy boy.
I'm always wanting to do something.
Um...
it's in Word. I think.
Well. I'll get it here.
I'll find it quicker.
Ah.
"Thank you so much. Dr. Mew.
Your study is worth a Nobel Prize.
It feels so good that
there are still honorable men
like Dr. Mew and his son Dr. Mike Mew
in the evil world of dentistry."
That's a bit strong.
I'll tell you. John Mew's life
would be infinitely better
and more fulfilled
if he had the orthodontists of the world
beating a path to his door and saying.
"We admire you. We respect you.
You are our guru."
He--he needs respect.
and he needs adulation.
And I don't think it matters to him
all that much where it comes from
as long as he gets the adulation.
However. I think John Mew has. uh...
Actually done something good.
at long last. in his life.
He's done something good
by making you interested
in making this documentary.
because it brings to the surface
a number of issues
which characterize orthodontics.
Whether it's John Mew doing it
or whether it's the average
good guy orthodontist.
Only those dentists
who successfully complete
specialist training are entitled
to call themselves orthodontists.
And orthodontists understand
tooth movement
and the guidance of facial development.
Orthodontists do one thing.
and we do it well.
Orthodontics has become a business.
And because orthodontists
have to sell something.
they fabricate things.
There are no diseases
associated with malocclusion
at all-- None.
But if there is no disease.
what are you measuring?
It's purely subjective.
It doesn't matter a damn.
How do the Mews convince people
that there is some merit in what they say?
They do it partly by terminology.
by medicalizing orthodontics.
How many adults are gonna die
ten or 20 years early
because of craniofacial dystrophy?
And you're made to feel guilty
if you don't save your child
from this horrible thing
that they might have
if they don't get the treatment.
To me. you're doing a public service
by exposing these fictions
which are dressed up as health needs.
Here we are.
Now put your jaw forward. can you?
That's right.
John Mew is not unique.
What he's doing is just a replication
of the same shoddy orthodontics.
I don't care whether he calls it
orthoptics or whatever.
He is just a continuation
of what's been going on for more years
than John Mew has been in orthodontics.
Orthodontists are simply there
to straighten your teeth.
make your face look as good as possible.
and that should be good enough.
It's just like being a hairdresser.
I'll hold the mirror.
Now you try that yourself.
That's right. Now...
And that's why I think. ultimately.
orthodontics.
including the Mew phenomenon.
is destined to die.
You can fool some
of the people all of the time.
but you're not going to succeed.
because people see through it.
It's extraordinary that someone can say
people's face should look like this.
It's subjective. isn't it?
So how can you define it?
- Well. it's appalling. really.
- How can you define it?
- Isn't it? When I think about it.
- The nose to teeth is 38 millimeters.
Yeah. I mean. how--
I mean. if he thought that Quentin's face
could be perfect. and yet he'd be--
and let Ben go
and have any old treatment--
But mine was already perfect.
so I didn't need...
Yeah. but--
Well. actually.
that's not a bad thing for us.
'cause we wanted to get to that point
where we had our own identity.
to get to a point where.
if that is the case
that John Mew thinks everyone should have
a set distance between nose line and chin.
then that eradicates that identity.
individualism. and-- which is--
that's gotta be questionable.
So it's almost time.
I've gotta head up
to this case at the GDC.
This is the first day.
I've already been warned that they want
to consider delaying it.
What you call it?
Adjourning it for a while.
It's a disaster for me.
I mean. however. into London we go.
Some orthodontists
are calling Mewing a scam
and trying to revoke his dental license.
So go sign the petition in the link below
to help save Mike Mew's
orthodontic license.
The buildup to this day
has been at least five years.
Zarina was one year old when this started.
She's now six. so most of her life.
Dr. Mew. thank you for agreeing
to join me on JawHacks
to discuss your situation.
You are going up against what seems to be
this tidal wave of orthodontists.
It's almost like a kind
of information warfare
that they're levying against you.
and I can see that it's put you
at a great amount of distress.
Now. do you think if you had
never become a YouTube legend
with your ideas that have. quite frankly.
lifted so many young people
up out of despair.
would you have been spared the gauntlet?
Uh. with no question.
I'm really surprised
how much it's affected my wife.
This morning. she didn't want
to get out of bed.
She didn't want to come downstairs.
She was... depressed.
How else do I say it?
Well. you've started
the revolution already.
There's already a whole
generation of young people
out there who are looking
to take the candle.
- take the torch and run with it.
- Yeah.
When's this whole legal mess
gonna be over. Mike?
It runs for four weeks.
Murder cases are only usually two weeks.
It's nice to see you in the light.
You feel real.
- We met. though?
- No.
Three people are going
to decide my fate.
And I feel they're gonna decide
the fate of the health
of the people of the planet.
- I'm here for the case of Mew.
- Yes.
John Mew speaking.
- Dad. it's Mike.
- Yes. Mike.
So what's happening is
that they're gonna delay it.
You know. I wish we could be
further along the line.
I wish we could have got this further.
but... it is what it is.
And I'm in this place.
And there's no closure.
And... it's not an ideal scenario.
As you know. the GDC made
an application to adjourn.
But so look. Mike. That's where we are.
What's going to happen
throughout the rest
of the year. unfortunately.
is I suspect that when they're done
going back for two.
maybe even three tranches
of two or three weeks spread out
over probably a few months in the year.
How long-- What's the worst-case scenario?
Spread out of six months?
Um. no. worst case scenario.
maybe spread out over 12 months.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. [clears throat] Okay.
What today's been about is waiting.
waiting on other people
to make these decisions about your life.
And it's excruciating.
You know. it really-- It's painful.
At no point has my father ever had
any proper formal engagement
on his ideas and theories.
I mean. how much longer can he hang on?
He's still. you know--
I think the only reason
he's still mentally just there
is because this is going somewhere.
And if he doesn't get to see
the end of this court call.
I will lose my temper.
I will never forgive.
That would just...
- Hey. Mum.
- Hi. lovely.
- I'll take that.
- Hey. gorgeous.
Yeah. you can carry that for me.
Hello. Hello.
Hello. lovely.
- Oh. just put it here. darling.
- Lovely.
Thanks. darling. that's perfect.
Hello. birthday boy.
Hello. sweetheart.
Why is it that sound is working full on?
Oh. Hello. Hello. darling daughter.
I don't know. Dad.
Actually. that's quite a good video.
even if I say so myself.
The queen's going through
Edinburgh at the moment.
Coffin's now arrived in Holyrood.
I think Charles
will be an amazing king.
but unfortunately. he's not her.
His ears stick out
and his face has swung down.
Oh. well. Michael. you can't
put it all down to facial form.
Sorry. Charles has a big problem.
His face didn't grow well.
Well. I don't think
you can blame it all on that.
I think he didn't choose well
in his marriage.
For love. I think Diana
was an amazing person.
but I think. unfortunately.
they weren't a good--
- But she was pretty. and he wasn't.
- They weren't a good match.
Yeah. I don't think--
You can't put it all down to aesthetics.
Dad. Dad.
Oh. my goodness. you're so fast.
Hey. Dad. Dad. have you been
watching Jessica's face?
- Have you noticed--
- Her face?
Have you noticed her face
has come along lots
in the last six months?
I notice her all the time.
And yes. I do think.
What has really helped
is lip taping at night
- and all the gum chewing.
- Yeah. I'm sure.
I'm still thinking.
what is her indicator line?
It'll be too high.
You know it'll be too high. But it's--
Yes. but that's why I'm thinking--
Yeah. I know. I know. I know.
I couldn't do-- I couldn't put Jessica
through a whole course of therapy.
But as you know. I'm always ambitious
and I'm always optimistic about it.
Oh. my goodness. Jesse.
that is a mega one.
- Okay. so all right. we need--
- Don't swear.
I need a couple of volunteers
to help me light this.
Totally. I'm in.
Yeah but
last year we had 93 candles
and if you remember.
I've never seen such a bonfire.
- Ready. ready. ready.
- Cheers!
- Happy birthday. Poppa!
- Happy birthday.
Happy birthday!
Jessica. cheers!
Cheers.
Wish. wish. have a wish?
Have a wish?
- Blow! Blow!
- A wish?
All right. I wish that I--
Now blow.
Quick. before the whole place
goes up in flames.
- What was your wish. Dad?
- What was your wish for?
- I'm not allowed to say.
- Why?
- I'm gonna make--
- Because it won't come true.
It is very hard to change
the opinion of the entire world.
But I'm amazed how many people now Mew
or adopt Mewing. which bears my name.
And it shows that the public
have actually accepted this--
I should call this in advance--
much more than the orthodontists.
I'm sure Michael will inherit my legacy.
In a way. I feel guilty
because I led him into it
and he willingly followed.
But should I have done?
Should I have ever attempted
to change the world at all?
Dad. you were
the first by a long. long way
of putting it all together.
understanding what was really happening.
What were the terms it goes. you know.
they say it doesn't exist.
then they fight you.
then eventually they say.
"Oh. but it's obvious."
It's acceptance.
They say. "It's obvious.
We always knew that. It was obvious."
Yeah. I'm a dreamer. And hopefully--
I know. and I've put my life
on the line for a dream. I have.
Your father's dream.
Yes. it was my father's dream.
God. what the odds are--
People who aren't aesthetic
sometimes just don't see it.
They don't--
Well. I'm amazed how orthodontists
don't see facial change.
No. a lot of people
are just immune to art.
It's interesting.
I guess you're right. though.
They're immune.
They just. you know. they don't see art.
They don't see art in the same way
and they don't get the same appreciation.
And in a way. I would say
this is an element of art.
To appreciate beauty
is to appreciate art.
Yeah.
I-- I do think because
what I've said is different.
it will be recorded.
And ultimately.
I don't have the slightest doubt
that orthotropics
will displace orthodontics.
That. in a way.
is quite an important thing.
and I suppose that in future.
people will write that down and say.
"This guy John Mew thought it up."
But. you know.
I'm gonna be dead. so it won't affect me.